.\" Copyright (c) Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KCGI_WRITER_PUTS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcgi_writer_puts
.Nd write into a writer
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "enum kcgi_err"
.Fo kcgi_writer_puts
.Fa "struct kcgi_writer *writer"
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kcgi_writer_puts
function writes the NUL-terminated string
.Fa cp
to a
.Fa writer
channel opened by
.Xr kcgi_writer_get 3 .
This allows writing after
.Xr kcgi_writer_disable 3 ,
unlike
.Xr khttp_write 3 .
.Fn kcgi_writer_puts
is backed by
.Xr kcgi_writer_write 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Internal memory allocation failure.
.It Dv KCGI_HUP
The output connection has been terminated.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
The connection is still expecting headers with
.Xr khttp_head 3 .
Indicates that
.Xr khttp_body 3
did not return with success or was not invoked.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_SYSTEM
Internal system error writing to the output stream.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi_writer_disable 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_get 3
.Sh AUTHORS
This function was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
