.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, 2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KCGIHTML 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcgihtml ,
.Nm khtml_attr ,
.Nm khtml_attrx ,
.Nm khtml_close ,
.Nm khtml_closeelem ,
.Nm khtml_closeto ,
.Nm khtml_double ,
.Nm khtml_elem ,
.Nm khtml_elemat ,
.Nm khtml_entity ,
.Nm khtml_int ,
.Nm khtml_ncr ,
.Nm khtml_open ,
.Nm khtml_putc ,
.Nm khtml_puts ,
.Nm khtml_write
.Nd HTML output for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgihtml
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.In kcgihtml.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_attr
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "enum kelem elem"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_attrx
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "enum kelem elem"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_close
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_closeelem
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "size_t count"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_closeto
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "size_t pos"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_double
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "double val"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_elem
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "enum kelem elem"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_elemat
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_entity
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "enum entity entity"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_int
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "int64_t val"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_ncr
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "uint16_t ncr"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_open
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "struct kreq *r"
.Fa "int opts"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_putc
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "char c"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_puts
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_write
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fa "void *arg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kcgihtml
functions support output of HTML5 nodes in a
.Xr kcgi 3
.Fa req
allocated with
.Xr khttp_parse 3 .
Only
.Fn khtml_open
and
.Fn khtml_close
may be called before
.Xr khttp_body 3 .
.Pp
To compile and link, use
.Xr pkg-config 1
as follows:
.Bd -literal
% cc `pkg-config --cflags kcgi-html` -c -o sample.o sample.c
% cc -o sample sample.o `pkg-config --libs kcgi-html`
.Ed
.Pp
All of the
.Nm kcgihtml
functions accept a
.Vt "struct khtmlreq"
object.
To use this properly, open a context with
.Fn khtml_open ,
then use whichever functions you wish, then close the context with
.Fn khtml_close .
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fn khtml_attr
Open the scope of element
.Fa elem
with matching key-value pairs in the varargs for its attributes.
The maximum number of nested scopes is fixed at 128.
The terminating attribute key must be
.Dv ATTR__MAX .
.It Fn khtml_attrx
Like
.Fn khtml_attr ,
but accepts an addition parameter
.Ft "enum attrx"
following the
.Ft "enum attr"
that specifies the attribute type.
This is useful for non-string attributes, for example, invoking with
.Dv KATTR_WIDTH ,
.Dv KATTRX_INT ,
and
.Li 100
will properly render the integer type.
The types route through to
.Fn khtml_puts
for
.Dv KATTRX_STRING ,
.Fn khtml_int
for
.Dv KATTRX_INT ,
.Fn khtml_double
for
.Dv KATTRX_DOUBLE .
.It Fn khtml_close
Close an HTML context as opened with
.Fn khtml_open .
This will also close any open elements.
You should not use the object after invoking this function.
.It Fn khtml_closeelem
Close the last
.Fa count
scopes.
This will call
.Xr abort 3
if
.Fa count
exceeds the number of open scopes.
If
.Fa count
is zero, this will close all scopes.
.Em \&Do not
close HTML
.Qq void
elements such as
.Aq meta .
.It Fn khtml_closeto
Close until a certain level
.Fa pos
in the HTML tree, which must be at or above the current level.
Usually used with
.Fn khtml_elemat .
If there are fewer open contexts than the requested, this will only
close the available open contexts.
.It Fn khtml_double
Wrapper over
.Fn khtml_puts
for formatting a double-precision floating point.
This uses a buffer of size
.Li 256
and the
.Li %g
to
.Xr snprintf 3 ,
which may not be what you want.
.It Fn khtml_elem
Invokes
.Fn khtml_attr
with no attributes.
.It Fn khtml_elemat
Save the current point in the HTML tree.
Useful for saving a
.Fn khtml_closeto
rollback point.
.It Fn khtml_entity
Emit the numeric character reference for
.Fa entity .
.It Fn khtml_int
Wrapper over
.Fn khtml_puts
for formatting a 64-bit signed integer.
.It Fn khtml_ncr
Emit the numeric character reference
.Fa ncr .
.It Fn khtml_putc
Emit the text
.Fa c ,
escaping it (e.g.,
.Sq \&> )
for HTML if necessary.
.It Fn khtml_open
Initialise an HTML output context.
This accepts the underlying request as well as a bit-mask of options
.Fa opts .
This can be set to
.Dv KHTML_PRETTY ,
in which case the output is lightly
.Dq pretty-printed
with newlines and indentation spaces.
By default, output is all on one line.
.It Fn khtml_puts
Invokes
.Fn khtml_putc
for each character of the NUL-terminated string
.Fa cp .
.It Fn khtml_write
Like
.Fn khtml_puts ,
but working with a sized buffer.
This is generally for use with
.Xr khttp_template 3 .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
All functions inherit return values from
.Xr khttp_write 3 .
The
.Fn kkhtml_closeto
function returns
.Dv KCGI_FORM
if the requested number of scopes exceeds available scopes.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following outputs a simple HTML page.
It assumes
.Va r
is a
.Vt struct kreq
pointer.
Begin with the HTTP document.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
  "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
  "%s", kmimetypes[KMIME_TEXT_HTML]);
khttp_body(r);
.Ed
.Pp
Following that, the HTML5 document.
Let
.Va req
be a
.Vt struct khtmlreq
object.
This simply outputs an HTML5 document with title and content being
.Qq Hello, world .
It also links to a style sheet
.Pa /style.css .
.Bd -literal -offset indent
khtml_open(&req, r, 0);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HTML);

khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HEAD);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_TITLE);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world");
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* title */
khtml_attr(&req, KELEM_LINK,
  KATTR_REL, "stylesheet",
  KATTR_HREF, "/style.css", KATTR__MAX);
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* head */

khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_BODY);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_P);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world.");
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* p */
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* body */

khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* html */
khtml_close(&req);
.Ed
.Pp
The element name comment alongside
.Fn html_closeelem
hints as to which scope is being closed.
.Sh STANDARDS
HTML5 compatible with the draft standard of February 2014.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm kcgihtml
library was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
