.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KCGI_BUF_WRITE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcgi_buf_putc ,
.Nm kcgi_buf_puts ,
.Nm kcgi_buf_write
.Nd buffer functions for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo kcgi_buf_putc
.Fa "struct kcgi_buf *buf"
.Fa "char c"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo kcgi_buf_puts
.Fa "struct kcgi_buf *buf"
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo kcgi_buf_write
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fa "void *arg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kcgi_buf_putc ,
.Fn kcgi_buf_puts ,
and
.Fn kcgi_buf_write
functions append to a buffer object
.Fa buf ,
whose data buffer
.Fa buf->buf
is guaranteed to be NUL terminated if
.Fa buf->sz
is greater than zero.
.Pp
The
.Fn kcgi_buf_putc
function appends a single character;
.Fn kcgi_buf_puts
appends a NUL-terminated character string
.Pq not including the NUL terminator ;
and
.Fn kcgi_buf_write
appends a binary buffer
.Fa buf
of size
.Fa sz ,
where
.Fa arg
is cast to a
.Va "struct kcgi_buf" .
The latter is often used in the
.Xr khttp_templatex 3
family of functions.
.Pp
The
.Fa "struct kcgi_buf"
structure has the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fa "char *buf"
Buffer contents.
This is always NUL-terminated, but may contain NUL characters prior to
the stated length.
.It Fa "size_t maxsz"
Allocated buffer size.
.It Fa "size_t sz"
Buffer current length not including the NUL terminator.
.It Fa "size_t growsz"
Amount to grow the buffer when appending.
If set to zero, defaults to 1 KB.
.El
.Pp
The
.Va "struct kcgi_buf"
must be zeroed prior to usage, and the contained buffer passed to
.Xr free 3
when no longer used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state:
.Dv KCGI_OK
for no error,
.Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
for an internal memory allocation failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following creates a simple NUL-terminated buffer.
It does not perform any error checking.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct kcgi_buf buf;

memset(&buf, 0, sizeof(struct kcgi_buf));
kcgi_buf_puts(&buf, "Hello,");
kcgi_buf_putc(&buf, ' ');
kcgi_buf_puts(&buf, "world!");
puts(buf.buf); /* Emits "Hello, world!" */
free(buf.buf);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr khttp_templatex 3
.Sh AUTHORS
These functions were written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
