.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2018 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KCGI 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcgi
.Nd minimal CGI and FastCGI library in C
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Fd #define KCGI_VMAJOR x
.Fd #define KCGI_VMINOR y
.Fd #define KCGI_VBUILD z
.Fd #define KCGI_VERSION "x.y.z"
.Fd #define KCGI_VSTAMP xxxyyyzzz
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kcgi
library handles the CGI or FastCGI environment for C web applications.
Interfacing applications generally work as follows:
.Bl -enum
.It
Call
.Xr khttp_parse 3
as early as possible.
This will parse and validate input fields and cookies with the
.Xr kvalid_string 3
family of functions or those provided by the calling application.
It will do so
.Em in memory ,
so enormous requests (e.g., files) will occur entirely in memory!
It also sets up the HTTP environment: compression, paths, MIME types, and so on.
.It
Process input fields by examining the
.Vt "struct kpair"
elements.
.It
Emit HTTP headers with
.Xr khttp_head 3 ,
followed by
.Xr khttp_body 3
to begin the HTTP body.
.It
Emit HTTP body output using the
.Xr khttp_template 3
templating system, the
.Xr khttp_write 3
family for general HTTP content, and/or an external library such as
.Xr kcgihtml 3 .
.Em \&Do not
use
.Xr printf 3
or other functions to append to standard output:
.Nm kcgi
will automatically compress output if requested by the client, and
overriding the output stream will circumvent this behaviour and might
mix compressed and uncompressed data.
.It
Call
.Xr khttp_free 3
to clean up.
.El
.Pp
It can also accept FastCGI connections in a manner similar to the above,
except that the parse routine is run within a loop.
.Bl -enum
.It
Call
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3
as early as possible.
.It
Iterate over
.Xr khttp_fcgi_parse 3
for as many connections as desired, performing any processing on the
created request.
Each successful parse must be matched with
.Xr khttp_free 3 .
.It
Call
.Xr khttp_fcgi_free 3
when all processing is complete.
.El
.Pp
To compile applications with
.Nm ,
include the
.Pa kcgi.h
as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <sys/types.h> /* size_t, ssize_t */
#include <stdarg.h> /* va_list */
#include <stdint.h> /* int64_t */
#include <kcgi.h>
.Ed
.Pp
To compile and link, use
.Xr pkg-config 1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% cc `pkg-config --cflags kcgi` -c -o sample.o sample.c
% cc -o sample sample.o `pkg-config --libs kcgi`
.Ed
.Pp
If the library will be statically linked (e.g., for running within a
.Xr chroot 2 ) ,
link as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% cc `pkg-config --static --cflags kcgi` -c -o sample.o sample.c
% cc -static -o sample sample.o `pkg-config --static --libs kcgi`
.Ed
.Pp
The current version of the library is defined in
.Dv KCGI_VERSION
as a string of major number, minor number, and build.
These values are available seperately as
.Dv KCGI_VMAJOR ,
.Dv KCGI_VMINOR ,
and
.Dv KCGI_VBUILD ,
respectively.
A numeric concatenation of the version is defined as
.Dv KCGI_VSTAMP ,
which may be used to test for version number applicability.
.Ss Pledge Promises
The
.Nm kcgi
library is built to operate in security-sensitive environments, including
.Xr pledge 2
on
.Ox .
The following is a list of all required promises.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va cpath wpath
.Xr kutil_openlog 3
requires file-system access to produce its log.
.It Va proc
.Xr khttp_parse 3
and
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3
must create child processes.
.It Va stdio
Required by essentially all
.Nm
functions.
.It Va rpath
.Xr khttp_template 3
and
.Xr khttp_templatex 3
need access to their template files.
.It Va recvfd
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3
needs these for inheritence by its child processes and
.Xr khttp_fcgi_parse 3
needs this for accepting the end-point descriptor for each connection.
.It Va unix sendfd
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3
needs these for inheritence by its child processes.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following simple example assumes that
.Pa kcgi.h
is in the compiler's include path.
None of them perform error checking: each call into the
.Nm kcgi
library should have its error code checked!
.Pp
The following does nothing but emit
.Dq Hello, world!
to the output.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <sys/types.h> /* size_t, ssize_t */
#include <stdarg.h> /* va_list */
#include <stddef.h> /* NULL */
#include <stdint.h> /* int64_t */
#include <kcgi.h>

int main(void) {
  struct kreq r;
  const char *page = "index";

  if (khttp_parse(&r, NULL, 0, &page, 1, 0) != KCGI_OK)
      return 1;

  khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
      "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
  khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
      "%s", kmimetypes[r.mime]);
  khttp_body(&r);
  khttp_puts(&r, "Hello, world!");

  khttp_free(&r);
  return 0;
}
.Ed
.Pp
This can be extended to work with the FastCGI interface by allowing the
request parser to operate within a loop.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <sys/types.h> /* size_t, ssize_t */
#include <stdarg.h> /* va_list */
#include <stddef.h> /* NULL */
#include <stdint.h> /* int64_t */
#include <kcgi.h>

int main(void) {
  struct kreq r;
  struct kfcgi *fcgi;
  const char *page = "index";

  if (khttp_fcgi_init(&fcgi, NULL, 0, &page, 1, 0) != KCGI_OK)
      return 1;

  while (khttp_fcgi_parse(fcgi, &r) == KCGI_OK) {
    khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
        "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
    khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
        "%s", kmimetypes[r.mime]);
    khttp_body(&r);
    khttp_puts(&r, "Hello, world!");
    khttp_free(&r);
  }

  khttp_fcgi_free(fcgi);
  return 0;
}
.Ed
.Pp
In a more complicated example,
.Nm
accepts a single parameter
.Dq string
to validate and display.
This might be provided as part of an HTML form or directly as part of
the URL query string.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <sys/types.h> /* size_t, ssize_t */
#include <stdarg.h> /* va_list */
#include <stdint.h> /* int64_t */
#include <kcgi.h>

int main(void) {
  struct kreq r;
  struct kpair *p;
  const char *page = "index";
  struct kvalid key = { kvalid_stringne, "string" };

  if (khttp_parse(&r, &key, 1, &page, 1, 0) != KCGI_OK)
      return 1;

  khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
      "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
  khttp_head(&r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
      "%s", kmimetypes[r.mime]);
  khttp_body(&r);
  khttp_puts(&r, "Result: ");
  if ((p = r.fieldmap[0]))
      khttp_puts(&r, p->parsed.s);
  else if (r.fieldnmap[0])
      khttp_puts(&r, "bad parse");
  else
      khttp_puts(&r, "no value");

  khttp_free(&r);
  return 0;
}
.Ed
.Pp
Applications will usually specify an array of key-value pairs to
validate; or in the event of web services, a default validator (empty
string) for the full HTTP message body.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi_buf_printf 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_buf_putc 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_buf_puts 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_buf_write 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_strerror 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_disable 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_free 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_get 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_putc 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_puts 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_write 3 ,
.Xr kcgihtml 3 ,
.Xr kcgijson 3 ,
.Xr kcgiregress 3 ,
.Xr kcgixml 3 ,
.Xr khttp_body 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2str 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_free 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_getfd 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_parse 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_test 3 ,
.Xr khttp_free 3 ,
.Xr khttp_head 3 ,
.Xr khttp_parse 3 ,
.Xr khttp_printf 3 ,
.Xr khttp_putc 3 ,
.Xr khttp_puts 3 ,
.Xr khttp_template 3 ,
.Xr khttp_templatex 3 ,
.Xr khttp_urlencode 3 ,
.Xr khttp_write 3 ,
.Xr khttpbasic_validate 3 ,
.Xr khttpdigest_validate 3 ,
.Xr kmalloc 3 ,
.Xr kutil_invalidate 3 ,
.Xr kutil_log 3 ,
.Xr kutil_openlog 3 ,
.Xr kvalid_string 3 ,
.Xr kfcgi 8
.Sh STANDARDS
Many standards are involved in the
.Nm
library, most significantly being draft RFC 3875,
.Dq The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) Version 1.1 ,
and the
.Dq FastCGI Specification ,
version 1.0, published 29 April 1996.
.Bl -bullet
.It
Cookies are parsed according to
.Dq HTTP State Management Mechanism ,
RFC 6265.
However, quoted cookies are
.Em not
supported.
.It
The
.Dq Authentication
header is parsed for digest or basic tokens as defined by RFC 2617,
.Dq HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication ,
and RFC 6750,
.Dq The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token Usage .
.It
The partial multipart form data support is defined by RFC 2388,
.Dq Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data ,
which is further defined by RFCs 2045 and 2046,
.Dq Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions .
.It
MIME type names are registered with IANA.
.It
URLs are formatted according to RFC 1630,
.Dq Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW .
.It
HTTP response headers are standardised in RFC 2616,
.Dq HTTP/1.1
and further in RFC 4229,
.Dq HTTP Header Field Registrations .
.It
Permanent URI schemes are registered with IANA.
.It
The
.Lk https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kcgi/extending01.html "FastCGI Extensions for Management Control" .
.It
HTTP dates (logging and date-time management) are specified by
.Dq RFC 822 .
.It
URL encoding and decoding is defined by RFC 3986,
.Dq Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax .
.El
.Pp
Additional HTTP methods are defined by RFC 4918,
.Dq HTTP Extensions for Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning ;
and RFC 4791 ,
.Dq Calendaring Extensions to WebDAV .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
library was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
