.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 17 2014 $
.Dt KCGI_REGRESS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcgi_regress
.Nd automated testing framework for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgiregress
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In kcgiregress.h
.Ft int
.Fo kcgi_regress
.Fa "kcgi_regress_client client"
.Fa "void *client_arg"
.Fa "kcgi_regress_server server"
.Fa "void *server_arg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kcgi_regress
function is the single function in a library used for automated testing
of
.Xr kcgi 3
systems.
It is the mechanism used for internal regression tests as well.
.Pp
Applications wishing to use this framework provide callback functions to
.Fn kcgi_regress ,
which invokes
.Fa server
with argument
.Fa server_arg
within a CGI environment as if it were spawned by a web server, upon
which the usual
.Xr khttp_parse 3
functions are used to test behaviour.
Meanwhile, the
.Fa client
function is invoked for communicating with the server over port 17123.
The
.Xr libcurl 3
library is used for internal testing on the client side.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Both the
.Fa client
and
.Fa server
functions should return zero on test failure.
.Fn kcgi_regress
returns 0 if any tests or internal machinery fail.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm kcgihtml
library was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
