.Dd $Mdocdate: March 15 2016 $
.Dt KFCGI 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kfcgi
.Nd FastCGI server for kcgi applications
.\" .Sh LIBRARY
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 only.
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm kfcgi
.Op Fl drv
.Op Fl l Ar backlog
.Op Fl n Ar workers
.Op Fl N Ar maxworkers
.Op Fl p Ar chroot
.Op Fl s Ar sockpath
.Op Fl u Ar sockuser
.Op Fl U Ar procuser
.Op Fl w Ar waittime
.Ar prog Op arg0...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
server starts up
.Ar workers
processes of
.Ar prog
to handle FastCGI connections.
It can handle any FastCGI worker implementing the FastCGI v1.0
Specification as well as those implementing the FastCGI Extensions for
Management Control (see
.Fl r ,
.Fl N ,
and
.Fl w ) .
.Pp
By default, it opens the socket
.Pa /var/www/run/httpd.sock
in mode 0660 under the current user and group, changes to a file-system
jail in
.Pa /var/www ,
daemonises and opens its system log,
then starts 3 workers executing
.Ar prog ,
which must exist relative to the file-system jail root.
The back-log is twice the worker pool size
.Pq Fl n
or, in the event of variable-sized pools, twice the maximum worker size
.Pq Fl N .
.Pp
The arguments are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Do not daemonise and, in addition to syslog, print messages to standard
error.
.It Fl v
Be more verbose in output.
This can produce a
.Em lot
of output.
.It Fl l Ar backlog
The connection backlog.
If this is too small, connections will be refused and cause the request
to error out.
The operating system will usually truncate this.
.It Fl n Ar workers
The initial number of workers >1.
.It Fl N Ar maxworkers
The maximum number of workers in a variable-sized pool.
By default, this is twice
.Fl n .
.It Fl p Ar chroot
Location of file-system jail.
This is mandatory: use the root directory if you insist on being
insecure.
.It Fl r
Use a variable-sized pool of workers.
This can
.Em only
be used for workers implementing the FastCGI Extensions for Management
Control.
The pool will be at least (and initially) size
.Fl n ,
maximum size
.Fl N
with a release policy dictated by
.Fl w .
.It Fl s Ar sockpath
Alternative socket path.
.It Fl u Ar sockuser
The user in whose name (user and group) the socket is created.
.It Fl U Ar procuser
The user in whose name the process is dropped.
.It Fl w Ar waittime
The amount of time in seconds a worker must be idle before being
released from a variable-sized pool.
By default, this is five minutes.
.El
.Pp
To properly stop a
.Nm
server, send it a
.Dv SIGTERM .
If you send a
.Dv SIGHUP
to the process, it will restart all workers.
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.\" .Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.Sh EXAMPLES
On OpenBSD, the default user for the web server is
.Dq www .
Assuming we have a server that doesn't need any files, we can run the
following to keep it in a safe jail:
.Pp
.D1 # kfcgi -u www -U www -- /fcgi-bin/prog
.Pp
This will execute
.Pa /fcgi-bin/prog
within the default file-system jail of
.Pa /var/www
as user
.Dq www .
It will create the default socket
.Pa /var/www/run/httpd.sock
in mode 0660 as user
.Dq www .
.Pp
This can also be extended to run a variable-sized pool of workers that
responds to system load.
.Pp
.D1 # kfcgi -r -n 2 -N 100 -w 10 -u www -U www -- /fcgi-bin/prog
.Pp
This will start with only two servers, but scale it to 100 in the event
of a burst of communication.
Workers started to handle the burst will be terminated after 10 seconds.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi 3
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
implements the
.Dq FastCGI Specification ,
version 1.0, published 29 April 1996, for properly passing connections
to the workers.
It also implements the
.Lk http://kristaps.bsd.lv/kcgi/extending01.html "FastCGI Extensions for Management Control"
for variable-sized worker pools.
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
