.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTML_ELEMAT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khtml_closeelem
.Nd close element contexts of kcgihtml
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgihtml
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.In kcgihtml.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khtml_closeelem
.Fa "struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fa "size_t nclose"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Closes
.Fa nclose
element scopes of
.Fa req ,
initialised with
.Xr khtml_open 3 .
Scopes are opened with
.Xr khtml_attr 3 ,
.Xr khtml_attrx 3 ,
or
.Xr khtml_elem 3 .
Scopes for
.Qq void
elements
.Pq self-closing, like Dv KELEM_LINK
or
.Dv KELEM_DOCTYPE
close immediately and should not be explicitly closed.
.Pp
If
.Fa nclose
is zero or greater than the number of open scopes, all scopes are
closed.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Internal memory allocation failure.
.It Dv KCGI_HUP
The output connection has been terminated.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
The connection is still expecting headers with
.Xr khttp_head 3 .
Indicates that
.Xr khttp_body 3
did not return with success or was not invoked.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_SYSTEM
Internal system error writing to the output stream.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following outputs a simple HTML page.
It assumes
.Va r
is a
.Vt struct kreq
pointer.
For brevity, it does not do any error checking.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
  "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
  "%s", kmimetypes[KMIME_TEXT_HTML]);
khttp_body(r);
khtml_open(&req, r, 0);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_DOCTYPE);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HTML);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HEAD);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_TITLE);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world.");
khtml_closeelem(&req, 2); /* title, head */
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_BODY);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_P);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world");
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* p */
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_P);
khtml_puts(&req, "Another hello, world");
khtml_close(&req);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgihtml 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The referenced HTML5 standard is
.Lk https://www.w3.org/TR/html52 HTML5.2 .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
