.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTML_ELEMAT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khtml_elemat
.Nd get element stack depth of kcgihtml
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgihtml
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.In kcgihtml.h
.Ft size_t
.Fo khtml_elemat
.Fa "const struct khtmlreq *req"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Gets the current depth of the element stack of
.Fa req ,
initialised with
.Xr khtml_open 3 .
This is usually used with
.Xr khtml_closeto 3 .
.Pp
If called before opening any element contexts (i.e., a depth
of zero), a subsequent
.Xr khtml_closeto 3
will close all open scopes.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following outputs a simple HTML page.
It assumes
.Va r
is a
.Vt struct kreq
pointer.
For brevity, it does not do any error checking.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
  "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
  "%s", kmimetypes[KMIME_TEXT_HTML]);
khttp_body(r);
khtml_open(&req, r, 0);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_DOCTYPE);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HTML);
pos = khtml_elemat(&req); /* save at html */
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_HEAD);
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_TITLE);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world.");
khtml_closeto(&req, pos); /* to html */
khtml_closeelem(&req, 1); /* head */
khtml_elem(&req, KELEM_BODY);
khtml_puts(&req, "Hello, world");
khtml_close(&req);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgihtml 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh CAVEATS
If called in a scope that's subsequently closed, then a new scope
reopened and filled in, a corresponding
.Xr khtml_closeto 3
will unwind the stack to the new scope.
In other words this does not identify a savepoint: it's merely the scope
depth.
