.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_DATETIME2EPOCH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_date2epoch ,
.Nm khttp_datetime2epoch
.Nd validate and convert date and time
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft int
.Fo khttp_date2epoch
.Fa "int64_t *res"
.Fa "int64_t day"
.Fa "int64_t mon"
.Fa "int64_t year"
.Fa "int64_t hour"
.Fa "int64_t min"
.Fa "int64_t sec"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo khttp_datetime2epoch
.Fa "int64_t *res"
.Fa "int64_t day"
.Fa "int64_t mon"
.Fa "int64_t year"
.Fa "int64_t hour"
.Fa "int64_t min"
.Fa "int64_t sec"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Convert broken-day date and time values into seconds since 00:00:00
UTC, 1970-01-01.
The date and time values are accepted as UTC.
.Fn khttp_date2epoch
is equivalent to
.Fn khttp_datetime2epoch
but with zero
.Fa hour ,
.Fa min ,
and
.Fa sec
arguments.
If
.Fa res
is
.Dv NULL ,
simply check the time values for correctness.
.Pp
Date correctness means that input values fall within the following
acceptable ranges:
.Bl -column hourx aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa -offset indent
.It Fa sec Ta seconds 0\(en59
.It Fa min Ta minutes 0\(en59
.It Fa hour Ta hours 0\(en23
.It Fa day Ta day of month 1\(en31
.It Fa mon Ta month 1\(en12
.It Fa year Ta year -2.9e11\(en2.9e11
.El
.Pp
The year bound is the maximum year value that may be converted to
seconds for a 64-bit integer.
.Pp
These deprecate
.Fn kutil_date2epoch ,
.Fn kutil_date_check ,
.Fn kutil_datetime2epoch ,
and
.Fn kutil_datetime_check ,
which should no longer be used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Return zero if the given values do not correspond to a valid date and time,
non-zero otherwise.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr khttp_epoch2datetime 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2str 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2tms 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
