.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016--2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_EPOCH2STR 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_epoch2str ,
.Nm khttp_epoch2ustr
.Nd convert time to a string
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_epoch2str
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fc
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_epoch2ustr
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Format an
.Fa epoch
value
.Pq seconds since Jan 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC
into the buffer
.Fa buf
of size
.Fa sz ,
which should be greater than or equal to 64 bytes.
If not enough space is given for the formatted date, the buffer is
truncated to the available size.
It is always NUL-terminated.
.Pp
The output of
.Fn khttp_epoch2str
conforms to RFC 5322
.Pq Dq Wed, 02 Oct 2002 13:00:00 GMT .
However, the year may be greater than four digits or less than 1900,
or even be negative, which is contrary to RFC 5322 section 3.3.
.Pp
.Fn khttp_epoch2ustr
conforms to ISO 8601
.Pq Dq 2002-10-02T13:00:00Z ,
again with the stipulation that the year may be greater than 4 digits or
be less than zero.
.Pp
These deprecate the original
.Fn kutil_epoch2str
and
.Fn kutil_epoch2utcstr
functions, which had undefined behaviour in some corner cases.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns a pointer to the input
.Fa buf
or
.Dv NULL
if
.Fa buf
is
.Dv NULL ,
.Fa sz
is zero, or time conversion fails.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr khttp_datetime2epoch 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2datetime 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2tms 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
