.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017--2018, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_TEMPLATE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_template ,
.Nm khttp_template_buf ,
.Nm khttp_template_fd
.Nd emit filled-in templates for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_template
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const struct ktemplate *t"
.Fa "const char *filename"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_template_buf
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const struct ktemplate *t"
.Fa "const char *buf"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_template_fd
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const struct ktemplate *t"
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "const char *filename"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Modify input by replacing keys in a template.
May only be called after
.Xr khttp_body 3 .
Output is written with
.Xr khttp_write 3
using the
.Fa req
previously allocated with
.Xr khttp_parse 3
or
.Xr khttp_fcgi_parse 3 .
The
.Xr khttp_templatex 3
family allows for alternative writers.
.Pp
All functions accept a template
.Fa t
consisting of the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fa "const char *const *key"
An array of keys to be replaced in the template.
.It Fa "size_t keysz"
The number of keys in
.Fa t->key .
.It Fa "void *arg"
An optional argument passed to
.Fa t->cb .
.It Fa "int (*cb)(size_t index, void *arg)"
The callback function invoked when a key at position
.Fa index ,
which is always less than
.Fa t->keysz ,
is found in
.Fa t->key .
The optional
.Fa arg
is passed the function.
The function must return zero on failure, non-zero on success.
.El
.Pp
If
.Fa t
is
.Dv NULL ,
the input is passed through to
.Xr khttp_write 3
without any processing.
.Pp
Otherwise, the input is passed to
.Xr khttp_write 3
until a key sequence in encountered matching a key in
.Fa t->key .
The callback
.Fa t->cb
is then invoked instead of printing the key sequence.
If there are multiple matching keys in
.Fa t->key ,
only one is used (which is not yet fixed).
If the key sequence is not found in
.Fa t->key ,
it is passed unchanged to
.Xr khttp_write 3 .
.Pp
The different input types are
.Fn khttp_template ,
which reads input from the file
.Fa filename ;
.Fn khttp_template_buf ,
which reads from a binary buffer
.Fa buf
of length
.Fa sz ;
and
.Fn khttp_template_fd ,
which reads from a file descriptor
.Fa fd
with optional file-name
.Fa fname
used only for logging purposes.
.Sh SYNTAX
Each substring of the input beginning and ending with a pair
of
.Dq at
signs,
.Cm @@ Ns Ar key Ns Cm @@ ,
is called a
.Qq key sequence .
Zero-length keys
.Cm @@@@
are allowed and match empty template keys.
If the
.Cm @@
pair is escaped with a single backslash,
.Cm \e@@ ,
the backslash is removed and it's emitted as
.Cm @@ .
.Pp
A key sequence may not contain an escaped pair: this is parsed as a
backslash followed by the trailing pair.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These return an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state:
.Bl -tag -width KCGI_SYSTEM
.It Dv KCGI_OK
No error occurred.
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Memory allocation failed.
.It Dv KCGI_SYSTEM
A system call failed.
For example, writing to the output stream failed, or
.Fn khttp_template
failed to
.Xr open 2
.Fa filename .
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
.Fa t->cb
returned 0.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following simple example takes a buffer
.Fa buf
and applies the replacement template of two values, writing it to the
current context
.Fa req .
.Bd -literal -offset indent
static int writer(size_t idx, void *arg)
{
  struct kreq *r = arg;
  if (idx == 0)
    khttp_puts(r, "foo-value");
  else if (idx == 1)
    khttp_puts(r, "bar-value");
  return 1;
}

enum kcgi_err format(struct kreq *r)
{
  const char *const keys[] = { "foo", "bar" };
  struct ktemplate t = {
    .key = keys,
    .keysz = 2,
    .arg = r,
    .cb = writer
  };
  const char *buf = "foo=@@foo@@, bar=@@bar@@";
  return khttp_template_buf(r, &t, buf, strlen(buf));
}
.Ed
.Pp
The function will produce
.Qq foo=foo-value, bar=bar-value .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi 3 ,
.Xr khttp_body 3 ,
.Xr khttp_parse 3 ,
.Xr khttp_templatex 3 ,
.Xr khttp_write 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
