.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_URLPART 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_urlpart ,
.Nm khttp_urlpartx ,
.Nm khttp_vurlpart ,
.Nm khttp_vurlpartx
.Nd URL formatting for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_urlpart
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "const char *suffix"
.Fa "const char *page"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_urlpartx
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "const char *suffix"
.Fa "const char *page"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_vurlpart
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "const char *suffix"
.Fa "const char *page"
.Fa "va_list ap"
.Fc
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_vurlpartx
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "const char *suffix"
.Fa "const char *page"
.Fa "va_list ap"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Format a URL given the components following the domain.
If the variable arguments are provided, append them as query string
pairs.
.Pp
.Dl Fa path Ns / Ns Fa page . Ns Fa suffix
.Dl Fa path Ns / Ns Fa page . Ns Fa suffix Ns Pf ? Fa key Ns Pf = Fa val...
.Pp
If
.Fa path
is
.Dv NULL ,
the URL will be relative to
.Fa page ;
otherwise,
.Fa path
will be followed by a path separator.
An empty
.Fa path
signifies the root directory.
.Pp
If the
.Fa suffix
is
.Dv NULL
or
empty, or the corresponding
.Fa page
is
.Dv NULL
or empty, the URL is formatted without a suffix.
.Pp
The variable key-value arguments must be terminated with
.Dv NULL .
.Fn khttp_urlpart
and
.Fn khttp_vurlpart
accept pairs of variable arguments, the first being the query string
key, the second being the value.
Both are
.Vt "char *" .
A
.Dv NULL
query string value is rendered as an empty string.
.Fn khttp_urlpartx
and
.Fn khttp_vurlpartx
accept triplets.
In each group, the first argument is a
.Vt char *
giving the key.
The second argument is an
.Vt enum kattrx
specifying the type of the third argument:
.Dv KATTRX_STRING
followed by a
.Vt char *
string (where a
.Dv NULL
query string value is rendered as an empty string),
.Dv KATTRX_INT
followed by an
.Vt int64_t
signed integer, or
.Dv KATTRX_DOUBLE
followed by a
.Vt double
floating-point number.
If all types are
.Dv KATTRX_STRING ,
the invocation can be shortened to
.Fn khttp_urlpart .
.Pp
The
.Fa page ,
query string keys, and query string values are URL-encoded, but the
.Fa path
and the
.Fa suffix
are not.
.Pp
There are two deprecated forms of these functions:
.Fn kutil_urlpart
and
.Fn kutil_urlpartx .
These should no longer be used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Return newly-allocated strings that must be freed with
.Xr free 3
or
.Dv NULL
if allocation fails.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following creates a relative URL with path, page, suffix, and query string
parts.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
url = khttp_urlpart("/path", "html", "page",
	 "foo", "bar", "baz", "xyzzy", NULL);
.Ed
.Pp
This will assign the following URL:
.Pp
.Dl /path/page.html?foo=bar&baz=xyzzy
.Pp
For typed arguments, the extended form may be used.
Integer and real literals must have the
.Vt int64_t
and
.Vt double
types, respectively.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
url = khttp_urlpartx("/path", "html", "page",
	 "foo", KATTRX_INT, (int64_t)0, NULL);
.Ed
.Pp
This assigns the following
.Pp
.Dl /path/page.html?foo=0
.Pp
These may be made relative to the current page by omitting the leading
slash or passing
.Dv NULL
for the path component entirely, such as:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
url1 = khttp_urlpart("rel/path", "html", "page", NULL);
url2 = khttp_urlpart(NULL, "html", "page", NULL);
.Ed
.Pp
These assign the following, respectively:
.Pp
.Dl rel/path/page.html
.Dl page.html
.Pp
Lastly, pages and their suffixes may be omitted entirely:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
url3 = khttp_urlpart("", "", "", "foo", "bar", NULL);
url4 = khttp_urlpart(NULL, "", "", "foo", "bar", NULL);
.Ed
.Pp
These assign the following:
.Pp
.Dl /?foo=bar
.Dl ?foo=bar
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
