.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_URLDECODE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_urldecode ,
.Nm khttp_urldecode_inplace
.Nd URL decoding for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "enum kcgi_err"
.Fo khttp_urldecode
.Fa "const char *src"
.Fa "char **dst"
.Fc
.Ft "enum kcgi_err"
.Fo khttp_urldecode_inplace
.Fa "char *src"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Decode the percent-encoded string
.Fa src .
In
.Fn khttp_urldecode ,
the result is placed in
.Fa dst .
In
.Fn khttp_urldecode_inplace ,
the input string
.Fa src
is overwritten with the result, which will be the same or shorter in
length.
.Pp
These accept uppercase and lowercase percent encoding, for example.
.Qq %A0
or
.Qq %a0 ,
respectively.
.Pp
The deprecated form of these functions,
.Fn kutil_urldecode
and
.Fn kutil_urldecode_inplace ,
should no longer be used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn khttp_urldecode
and
.Fn khttp_urldecode_inplace
return an error code:
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Memory failure (only
.Fn khttp_urldecode ) .
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
Malformed input or
.Dv NULL
.Fa src
or
.Fa dst
arguments.
.El
.Pp
If
.Fn khttp_urldecode
returns an error, it always sets
.Fa dst
to
.Dv NULL .
.Fn khttp_urldecode_inplace ,
however, may leave a partially-decoded string in
.Fa src .
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
