.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2018 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_WRITE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_putc ,
.Nm khttp_puts ,
.Nm khttp_write
.Nd write HTTP content data for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_putc
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "int c"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_puts
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo khttp_write
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const char *buf"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn khttp_putc ,
.Fn khttp_puts ,
and
.Fn khttp_write
functions write HTTP content for a
.Xr kcgi 3
context allocated with
.Xr khttp_parse 3
or
.Xr khttp_fcgi_parse 3 .
These functions should only be invoked after
.Xr khttp_body 3 .
.Fn khttp_putc
emits a single character;
.Fn khttp_puts
emits a NUL-terminated character string
.Po
note, this does not append a newline like
.Xr puts 3
.Pc ,
and
.Fn khttp_write
emits a binary buffer
.Fa buf
of size
.Fa sz .
.Pp
Once
.Xr kcgi_writer_disable 3
has been invoked, these functions will
.Xr abort 3
if called.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Internal memory allocation failure.
.It Dv KCGI_HUP
The output connection has been terminated.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
The connection is still expecting headers with
.Xr khttp_head 3 .
Indicates that
.Xr khttp_body 3
did not return with success or was not invoked.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_SYSTEM
Internal system error writing to the output stream.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi 3 ,
.Xr kcgi_writer_disable 3 ,
.Xr khttp_body 3 ,
.Xr khttp_parse 3
.Sh AUTHORS
These functions were written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
