.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_HEAD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_head
.Nd emit one HTTP header for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft void
.Fo khttp_head
.Fa "struct kreq *req"
.Fa "const char *key"
.Fa "const char *fmt"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Vt extern const char *const kresps[KRESP__MAX];
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn khttp_head
function takes a
.Xr kcgi 3
context
.Fa req
that was previously initialized by
.Xr khttp_parse 3
and emits one HTTP header with the given HTTP response
.Fa key .
The
.Fa fmt
string and variable arguments, which follow
.Xr printf 3
syntax, form the corresponding value in the HTTP response.
This function may only be invoked prior to
.Xr khttp_body 3 ;
otherwise, its behaviour is undefined.
.Pp
The
.Va kresps
global array, indexed with the
.Dv KRESP_*
symbolic constants defined in
.In kcgi.h ,
provides standard HTTP key names.
.Pp
See
.Xr khttp_body 3
for a discussion on the
.Qq Content-Encoding
header: do not specify this header before doing so!
.Sh EXAMPLES
To emit a session cookie (one-year expiration date) with key
.Ar ckey
and value
.Ar cval
for the global path, one may invoke the following.
Assume that
.Fa r
is a context initialized by
.Xr khttp_parse 3 .
.Bd -literal
const char *ckey = "foo", *cval = "bar";
char buf[64];

kutil_epoch2str(time(NULL) + 31536000, buf, 64);

khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_SET_COOKIE],
  "%s=%s; path=/; expires=%s", ckey, cval, buf);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi 3 ,
.Xr khttp_body 3 ,
.Xr khttp_parse 3
.Sh STANDARDS
RFC 2616, section 14:
.Dq Header Field Definitions .
.Pp
The example references
RFC 6265, section 4.1:
.Dq Set-Cookie .
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Fn khttp_head
function was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh BUGS
Long header values (\(>= 1024 B) will be truncated.
