.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_URLENCODE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_urlencode
.Nd URL encoding for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_urlencode
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Percent-encodes a string
.Fa cp ,
usually for embedding in a URL, and returns the allocated result.
If passed a
.Dv NULL ,
returns an allocated empty string.
.Pp
The encoding uses capital-letter hex encoding.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns a newly-allocated string that must be freed with
.Xr free 3
or
.Dv NULL
if allocation fails.
.Pp
The deprecated form of this function,
.Fn kutil_urlencode ,
should no longer be used.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following table shows strings pre- and post-encoding.
.Pp
.TS
l l.
foo bar	foo+bar
foo+bar	foo%2Bbar
.TE
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
