.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016--2017, 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_EPOCH2TMS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm KHTTP_EPOCH2TM ,
.Nm khttp_epoch2tms
.Nd convert time to components
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft int
.Fo khttp_epoch2tms
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "int *tm_sec"
.Fa "int *tm_min"
.Fa "int *tm_hour"
.Fa "int *tm_mday"
.Fa "int *tm_mon"
.Fa "int *tm_year"
.Fa "int *tm_wday"
.Fa "int *tm_yday"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo KHTTP_EPOCH2TM
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "struct tm *tm"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Format an
.Fa epoch
value
.Pq seconds since Jan 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC
into its broken-down time components suitable for
.Vt "struct tm"
operations.
.Pp
The components of
.Fn khttp_epoch2tms
are filled in as follows:
.Bl -column tm_hourx aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa -offset indent
.It Fa tm_sec Ta seconds 0\(en59
.It Fa tm_min Ta minutes 0\(en59
.It Fa tm_hour Ta hours 0\(en23
.It Fa tm_day Ta day of month 1\(en31
.It Fa tm_mon Ta month 0\(en11
.It Fa tm_year Ta year minus 1900
.It Fa tm_yday Ta day in year 0\(en365
.It Fa tm_wday Ta day in week 0\(en6 (Sunday = 0)
.El
.Pp
If any of the pointers are
.Dv NULL ,
they are ignored.
.Pp
The
.Fn KHTTP_EPOCH2TM
macro fills in
.Fa tm
with the above values.
Other fields in the
.Vt "struct tm"
structure, like
.Va tm_gmtoff ,
are not touched.
.Pp
These deprecate the original
.Fn kutil_epoch2tmvals
function and
.Fn KUTIL_EPOCH2TM
macro, both of which had undefined behaviour in some corner cases.
.Pp
For conversion without possible overflow or underflow, use
.Xr khttp_epoch2datetime 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These return zero on failure and non-zero on success.
Failure occurs if the computed year will overflow or underflow
.Fa tm_year .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr khttp_datetime2epoch 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2datetime 3 ,
.Xr khttp_epoch2str 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
