.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KHTTP_URLABS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm khttp_urlabs ,
.Nm khttp_vurlabs
.Nd URL formatting for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_urlabs
.Fa "enum kscheme scheme"
.Fa "const char *host"
.Fa "uint16_t port"
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Ft "char *"
.Fo khttp_vurlabs
.Fa "enum kscheme scheme"
.Fa "const char *host"
.Fa "uint16_t port"
.Fa "const char *path"
.Fa "va_list ap"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Format an absolute (full) URL.
The
.Fa host
is in some standards called the
.Qq authority .
.Pp
.Dl Fa scheme Ns :// Ns Fa host : Ns Fa port Ns / Ns Fa path Ns ?key=val
.Dl Fa scheme Ns :// Ns Fa host : Ns Fa port Ns / Ns Fa path
.Dl Fa scheme : Ns Fa path
.Pp
Passing a
.Dv NULL
or empty
.Fa host
will omit the
.Qq // ,
.Fa host ,
.Fa port
component.
.Pp
If the
.Fa host
is non-empty and not
.Dv NULL
and the
.Fa path
is also non-empty and not
.Dv NULL ,
the
.Fa path
is prepended with a mandatory slash.
.Pp
If the
.Fa port
is zero, it is omitted.
The
.Fa port
is only used if
.Fa host
is non-empty and not
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The variable arguments are arranged in pairs terminated by a single
.Dv NULL .
The first of each pair is the query string key, the second is the value.
Both are
.Vt "char *" .
A
.Dv NULL
query string value is rendered as an empty string.
.Pp
Only the query string pairs are URL-encoded, so the caller must make
sure that the characters in
.Fa host
and
.Fa path
are valid.
.Pp
The deprecated form of these functions,
.Fn kutil_urlabs ,
should no longer be used.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Return newly-allocated strings that must be freed with
.Xr free 3
or
.Dv NULL
if allocation fails.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To print a full URL:
.Pp
.Dl khttp_urlabs(KSCHEME_HTTPS, "foo.com", 80, "b", "c", "d", NULL);
.Pp
This assigns
.Li https://foo.com:80/b?c=d .
.Pp
Setting the port to zero eliminates the port:
.Pp
.Dl khttp_urlabs(KSCHEME_HTTPS, "foo.com", 0, "b", "c", "d", NULL);
.Pp
This assigns
.Li https://foo.com/b?c=d .
.Pp
An empty path component ends with the domain (or query string).
.Pp
.Dl khttp_urlabs(KSCHEME_HTTPS, "foo.com", 0, "", "c", "d", NULL);
.Pp
This assigns
.Li https://foo.com?c=d .
.Pp
To use a host-less scheme, specify a
.Dv NULL
or empty host:
.Pp
.Dl khttp_urlabs(KSCHEME_MAILTO, NULL, 0, "k@b.com", NULL);
.Pp
This assigns
.Li mailto:k@b.com .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh CAVEATS
These functions can currently be used to create semantically invalid
URLs such as
.Li https:?foo=bar
by omitting components required for the scheme.
Semantically-correct URLs are the responsibility of the caller.
This behaviour may be verified for correctness in later versions of the
software.
