.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KUTIL_URLENCODE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kutil_urlencode ,
.Nm kutil_urldecode ,
.Nm kutil_urldecode_inplace
.Nd URL formatting for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo kutil_urlencode
.Fa "const char *cp"
.Fc
.Ft "enum kcgi_err"
.Fo kutil_urldecode
.Fa "const char *src"
.Fa "char **dst"
.Fc
.Ft "enum kcgi_err"
.Fo kutil_urldecode_inplace
.Fa "char *cp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions format or manipulate various parts of a URL.
.Pp
The
.Fn kutil_urlencode
function encodes a string for embedding in a URL.
.Pp
The
.Fn kutil_urldecode
function decodes the given string
.Fa src
and stores the result in the allocated string
.Fa dst .
If the return code is not
.Dv KCGI_OK ,
the result is set to
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The
.Fn kutil_urldecode_inplace
function decodes the given string in-place.
If the string is malformed, the string may be only partially decoded.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn kutil_urlencode
function returns a newly-allocated string that must be freed with
.Xr free 3 .
They return
.Dv NULL
if allocation fails.
The
.Fn kutil_urlencode
function also returns
.Dv NULL
if
.Fa cp
is
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
Additionally the
.Fn kutil_urldecode
and
.Fn kutil_urldecode_inplace
functions return an error code:
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Memory failure (only
.Fn kutil_urldecode ) .
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
Malformed or
.Dv NULL
input data.
.El
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh AUTHORS
These functions were written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
