.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 12 2016 $
.Dt KUTIL_EPOCH2STR 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kutil_epoch2str ,
.Nm KUTIL_EPOCH2TM ,
.Nm kutil_epoch2tmvals ,
.Nm kutil_date2epoch ,
.Nm kutil_datetime2epoch
.Nd format and parse time for HTTP operations
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In unistd.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "void"
.Fo kutil_epoch2str
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "size_t sz"
.Fc
.Fd KUTIL_EPOCH2TM(_tt, _tm)
.Ft void
.Fo kutil_epoch2tmvals
.Fa "int64_t epoch"
.Fa "int *tm_sec"
.Fa "int *tm_min"
.Fa "int *tm_hour"
.Fa "int *tm_mday"
.Fa "int *tm_mon"
.Fa "int *tm_year"
.Fa "int *tm_wday"
.Fa "int *tm_yday"
.Fc
.Ft "int64_t"
.Fo kutil_date2epoch
.Fa "int64_t day"
.Fa "int64_t mon"
.Fa "int64_t year"
.Fc
.Ft "int64_t"
.Fo kutil_datetime2epoch
.Fa "int64_t day"
.Fa "int64_t mon"
.Fa "int64_t year"
.Fa "int64_t hour"
.Fa "int64_t min"
.Fa "int64_t sec"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm kutil_epoch2str ,
function formats an
.Fa epoch
value
.Pq seconds since Jan 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC
into the buffer
.Fa buf
of size
.Fa sz ,
which should be greater than or equal to 30 bytes for the date and
trailing nil terminator.
The format conforms to RFC 822.
This will truncate all values before the zeroth epoch to zero (Jan 1 as
given).
This function is useful for properly setting date-time header values:
.Dv KRESP_SET_COOKIE ,
.Dv KRESP_LAST_MODIFIED ,
.Dv KRESP_DATE ,
etc.
.Pp
The form
.Nm kutil_epoch2tmvals
breaks down the epoch value as seconds 0\(en60
.Pq Fa tm_sec ,
minutes 0\(en59
.Pq Fa tm_min ,
hours 0\(en23
.Pq Fa tm_hour ,
day of month 1\(en31
.Pq Fa tm_mday ,
month 0\(en11
.Pq Fa tm_mon ,
year minus 1900,
.Pq Fa tm_year ,
day of week with Sunday at 0
.Pq Fa tm_wday ,
and day of year 0\(en365
.Pq Fa tm_yday .
If any of the pointer values are
.Dv NULL ,
they are ignored.
Negative input epoch values are bound to zero.
.Pp
You can use the convenience
.Dv KUTIL_EPOCH2TM
macro to convert into
.Vt "struct tm" ,
which is not provided directly to avoid pulling in the
.Pa time.h
header.
The macro accepts an epoch and a
.Va "struct tm" ,
which the caller must have zeroed beforehand.
.Pp
The
.Nm kutil_date2epoch
function converts a day, month, and year into an epoch (at time 00:00:00).
If the year is before 1970 or any values are negative, this returns zero.
The behaviour for invalid dates (e.g., a
.Fn mon
value of 14) is undefined.
The
.Nm kutil_datetime2epoch
is similar, but acts upon time values as well.
The same rules regarding negative numbers and undefinedness apply.
.Pp
All of these date functions are designed to avoid how native
.Xr gmtime 3
and time formatting functions access time-zone files, which may
unwittingly crash given some operating system's sandbox mechanisms.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm kutil_epoch2str
and
.Nm kutil_date2epoch
functions were written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Vt time_t
and
.Vt "struct tm"
types are not used for the epoch to avoid expanding header requirements
for
.In kcgi.h
and because the
.Vt int64_t
type is used consistently for integral values.
