.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016--2017 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KUTIL_OPENLOG 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kutil_openlog
.Nd configure log message sink
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft "int"
.Fo kutil_openlog
.Fa "const char *file"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
function configures output for the
.Xr kutil_log 3
family of functions.
By default, these functions log to
.Dv stderr
and inherit the initial output buffering behaviour
.Pq see Xr setvbuf 3 .
.Pp
If
.Fa file
is not
.Dv NULL ,
.Nm
first redirects
.Vt stderr
to
.Fa file .
Then, regardless of whether
.Fa file
is
.Dv NULL ,
the output buffering of the stream is set to line buffered.
.Pp
CGI scripts invoking long-running child processes via
.Xr fork 2
should use this function with a valid
.Fa file
as the web server might wait for all file descriptors to close before
closing the request connection.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Nm
function returns zero on failure (system error) and non-zero on success.
If
.Nm
fails to re-open
.Vt stderr ,
the output stream may no longer be operable: the caller should exit.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
function was written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh CAVEATS
In most situations,
.Fa file
is configured in the default log directory, which is not writable to the
CGI process.
Thus,
.Fa file
must be pre-created and be writable to the CGI process.
Otherwise,
.Nm
will fail to create the file and exit with failure.
