.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, 2017 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Ingo Schwarze <schwarze@openbsd.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KVALID_STRING 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kvalid_bit ,
.Nm kvalid_date ,
.Nm kvalid_double ,
.Nm kvalid_email ,
.Nm kvalid_int ,
.Nm kvalid_string ,
.Nm kvalid_stringne ,
.Nm kvalid_udouble ,
.Nm kvalid_uint
.Nd predefined validation functions for kcgi
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_bit "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_date "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_double "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_email "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_int "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_string "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_stringne "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_udouble "struct kpair *kp"
.Ft int
.Fn kvalid_uint "struct kpair *kp"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The predefined
.Xr kcgi 3
validation functions check
.Fa kp->val
and
.Fa kp->valsz .
On successful validation, the appropriate
.Fa kp->parsed
field is set to the validated value and its type stored in
.Fa kp->type .
These functions are designed for use in the
.Fa valid
field of
.Vt struct kvalid ,
documented in
.Xr khttp_parse 3 .
.Pp
The validation functions perform the following validations:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fn kvalid_bit
A bit number in the range from 1 to 64 (first bit, second bit, and so
on) or 0 to indicate no bit.
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_INTEGER .
.It Fn kvalid_date
Converts an ISO 8601
.Ar YYYY Ns \- Ns Ar MM Ns \- Ns Ar DD
date to the number of seconds since or before the UNIX Epoch,
1970-01-01.
Dates before 1582 are not accepted.
Beyond syntax, dates are checked for correctness (days in month, leap
years, etc.).
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_INTEGER .
.It Fn kvalid_double
A signed double-precision floating-point number in
.Xr strtod 3
format.
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_DOUBLE .
.It Fn kvalid_email
A loosely-validated e-mail address consisting of at most 254 characters,
with a user part (at least one character) and a domain part (at least 4
characters).
The validated string is trimmed for white-space and lowercased.
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_STRING .
.It Fn kvalid_int
A 64-bit signed integer.
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_INTEGER .
.It Fn kvalid_string
A NUL-terminated string that is allowed to be empty.
The validation fails if
.Fa kp->valsz
does not match
.Fn strlen kp->val .
Sets
.Dv KPAIR_STRING .
.It Fn kvalid_stringne
The same as
.Fn kvalid_string
except that validation fails if the string is empty.
.It Fn kvalid_udouble
The same as
.Fn kvalid_double
except that validation fails if the number is zero or negative.
.It Fn kvalid_uint
The same as
.Fn kvalid_int
except that validation fails if the number is negative.
The range does not extend to
.Dv UINT64_MAX ,
but is limited to
.Dv INT64_MAX .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
All validation functions return 1 if validation succeeds or 0 if it
fails.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgi 3 ,
.Xr khttp_fcgi_init 3 ,
.Xr khttp_parse 3
.Sh AUTHORS
These functions were written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
.Sh BUGS
The functions
.Fn kvalid_double
and
.Fn kvalid_udouble
might attempt to access locale information, which might fail in a
sandbox.
