.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KXML_PUSHNULL 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kxml_pushnull ,
.Nm kxml_pushnullattrs
.Nd write a null element for kcgixml
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcgixml
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In stdarg.h
.In stdint.h
.In kcgi.h
.In kcgixml.h
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo kxml_pushnull
.Fa "struct kxmlreq *req"
.Fa "size_t elem"
.Fc
.Ft enum kcgi_err
.Fo kxml_pushnullattrs
.Fa "struct kxmlreq *req"
.Fa "size_t elem"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Write a null
.Pq self-closing
element
.Fa elem
on the current element stack of
.Fa req ,
initialised with
.Xr kxml_open 3 .
The element must be in the element array passed to
.Xr kxml_open 3 .
.Pp
The
.Fn kxml_pushnullattrs
form accepts pairs of character string arguments, the first being an
attribute name, the second its value.
This list must be terminated by a
.Dv NULL
pointer.
Attribute names are left as-is: the caller must make sure that keys are
valid XML.
Attribute values are XML escaped to prevent content from breaking out of
the attribute string.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns an
.Ft enum kcgi_err
indicating the error state.
.Bl -tag -width -Ds
.It Dv KCGI_OK
Success (not an error).
.It Dv KCGI_ENOMEM
Internal memory allocation failure, including reaching the maximum
number of possible JSON scopes.
.It Dv KCGI_HUP
The output connection has been terminated.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_FORM
The connection is still expecting headers with
.Xr khttp_head 3 .
Indicates that
.Xr khttp_body 3
did not return with success or was not invoked.
For FastCGI connections, the current connection should be released with
.Xr khttp_free 3
and parse loop reentered.
.It Dv KCGI_SYSTEM
Internal system error writing to the output stream.
.It Dv KCGI_WRITER
The
.Fa elem
is not a valid element index.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following outputs a simple XML page.
It assumes
.Va r
is a
.Vt struct kreq
pointer.
For brevity, it does not do any error checking.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
const char *const elems[] =
  { "foo", "bar", "baz" };
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_STATUS],
  "%s", khttps[KHTTP_200]);
khttp_head(r, kresps[KRESP_CONTENT_TYPE],
  "%s", kmimetypes[KMIME_TEXT_XML]);
khttp_body(r);
kxml_open(&req, r, elems, 3);
kxml_pushnull(&req, 0); /* foo */
kxml_pushnullattrs(&req, 1, "key", "val", NULL); /* bar */
kxml_close(&req);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcgixml 3
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Kristaps Dzonsons Aq Mt kristaps@bsd.lv .
